
0
the new possible
Current Page: POSSIBILITIES
SUBMIT
RESOURCES
ABOUT

Open Menu Close Menu
Current Page: POSSIBILITIES
SUBMIT
RESOURCES
ABOUT


AN INCOMPLETE, EVOLVING COLLECTION OF
THE NEW POSSIBLE



The pandemic is a portal, the novelist Arundhati Roy wrote in an essay for the
Financial Times. “We can choose to walk through it, dragging the carcasses of
our prejudice and hatred, our avarice, our data banks and dead ideas, our dead
rivers and smoky skies behind us. Or we can walk through lightly, with little
luggage, ready to imagine another world. And ready to fight for it.”

In many ways, the coronavirus pandemic has resurfaced and amplified the worst
in the world: racism, nationalism, anti-scientism, bigotry. But something
strange has happened as well. Changes, ideas and solutions that were previously
deemed impossible have suddenly become possible.

This site is an incomplete, evolving collection of the new possible. Because
once things can eventually return back to normal, we will need reminders that a
better world is possible, that the old normal doesn't have to be the new
normal.

Submit new possibilities or corrections here and learn about similar (and much
more comprehensive!) initiatives here.

the new normal doesn’t have to be the old normal

society Frederike Kaltheuner 5/1/20 society Frederike Kaltheuner 5/1/20

Policies once called radical in the UK are now hugely popular

In part because of Covid-19, policies once called radical have gained new
popularity. In the UK, 74% now support rent controls; only 8% oppose. 72% now
support a job guarantee; only 6% oppose.

Read More
technology, education Elettra Bietti 4/30/20 technology, education Elettra
Bietti 4/30/20

US Local Districts distribute free laptops to children

New York City Department of Education has distributed 175,000 free laptops,
Chromebooks, and iPads, and the School District of Philadelphia is planning to
give out devices currently used only in schools, as well as working with
corporations and others to procure more as needed. Charities are also
participating in the effort. A similar move can be seen in other countries,
including the UK.

Read More
education Frederike Kaltheuner 4/28/20 education Frederike Kaltheuner 4/28/20

Free school meals in England now also for all children of immigrant parents

Children usually denied free school meals because of their parents’ immigration
status have been granted temporary eligibility during the coronavirus outbreak.
Previously, children of failed asylum seekers and children with British
citizenship whose parents don’t have the right to remain in the UK were
excluded from free meals scheme.

Read More
technology, economy Elettra Bietti 4/27/20 technology, economy Elettra Bietti 4
/27/20

Amazon nudges users to buy less, not more

Due to a surge in demand that they are unable to meet, the online retailer
Amazon is trying to discourage users from buying things they don’t need by
changing a number of features on their site. The comapany removed the popular
recommendation widget, that displays products people frequently buy along with
whatever is already in your cart. Amazon has been criticised for failing to
protect its workers and fired tech workers who criticised conditions in
warehouse workplaces.

Read More
economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/25/20 economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/25/20

Tenants and Organisers in New York are preparing a rent strike

Can’t pay? Won’t pay! Organisers and tenants are planning a coordinated rent
strike in New York City, The Intercept reports. Housing Justice For All, a New
York-based coalition of tenants and housing activists, declared that at least
1,500 rent units will stop paying rent on May 1st. Meanwhile 5,000 people have
joined an online pledge to refuse to pay rent.

Read More
economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/23/20 economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/23/20

France: no bailouts for firms registered in offshore tax havens

France becomes the latest country to ban companies registered in offshore tax
havens from coronavirus bailouts, following Denmark and Poland.

Read More
transportation Frederike Kaltheuner 4/21/20 transportation Frederike Kaltheuner
4/21/20

BRUSSELS AND MILAN PLAN TO LIMIT CARS AFER LOCKDOWN ENDS

The northern Italian of Milan city plans to reallocate street space from cars
to cycling by turning 35km of streets over the cyclists and pedestrians.
Meanwhile Brussels will turn its inner city into a special zone for cyclists
and pedestrians. Maximum speed for cars, busses and trams will be 20 km/h, in
what the city’s mayor has called a "vélorution".

Read More
gender Frederike Kaltheuner 4/18/20 gender Frederike Kaltheuner 4/18/20

WOMEN BECOME MOST ESSENTIAL WORKERS

In the US, one in three jobs held by women has been designated essential. In
Germany, 75 percent of all essential jobs are done by women. While the pandemic
has certainly lead to a growing appreciation for essential workers, many of
whom are immigrants, migrants and minorities, daily clapping has yet to
translate into better pay and improved working conditions for carers, nurses,
teachers, doctors, cashiers, shopkeepers, warehouse workers, delivery drivers
and cleaners who are putting their lives at risk.

Read More
economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/18/20 economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/18/20

NO BAILOUTS FOR TAX-DODGERS IN DENMARK

Companies which pay out dividends, buy back own shares or are registered in tax
havens won’t be eligible for the Danish government’s aid programs, which now
amount to a total of 400 billion kroner (roughly 58 billion USD), when
including loans and guarantees.

Read More
technology Frederike Kaltheuner 4/17/20 technology Frederike Kaltheuner 4/17/20

LIVING IN  BENIN AND CAN’T PAY YOUR PHONE BILL? NO PROBLEM

Phone subscribers in Benin are allowed to keep their lines in spite of falling
behind with payments. The West African government passed a law to suspend the
termination of SIM cards during this emergency, even if payments are overdue,
to ensure all citizens have access to relevant information.

Read More
economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/14/20 economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/14/20

debt relief for poorest countries hit by the pandemic

Global creditors agree on debt relief for some of the poorest countries hit by
the pandemic. G-20 countries will suspend poor countries' debt payments for a
year, freeing up to $20 billion. But the African Union and global development
experts say the steps taken are not enough. The G-20 decision doesn’t mean
repayments are cancelled and countries will continue to pay interests on the
money they still owe later. Banks and other private creditors are also under
pressure to suspend debt.

Read More
economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/12/20 economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/12/20

SPAIN DISCUSSES BASIC INCOME FOR POOREST

No, Spain will not become the first European country to roll out a universal
basic income to mitigate the impact of coronavirus. Instead, the government
will introduce a "minimum vital income" for vulnerable single-parent
households. Up to 100,000 households will be eligible, but that’s still far-off
from the idea of a universal basic income, which, by definition, is universal
and not dependent on need.

Read More
environment Frederike Kaltheuner 4/12/20 environment Frederike Kaltheuner 4/12/
20

GLOBAL CARBON EMISSIONS DROP - FOR NOW

The coronavirus pandemic could result in a 5% fall in global carbon emissions,
The Guardian reports. But as the climate activists Luisa Neubauer cautioned:
“if a pandemic destroys entire industries and emissions decrease as a result,
that’s not text book climate protection, it’s the involuntary consequence of a
catastrophe. Sustainable climate action is the very opposite: predictable,
transformative and just.” [translation by us]

Read More
migration Frederike Kaltheuner 4/8/20 migration Frederike Kaltheuner 4/8/20

FAST-TRACKED IMMIGRATION - BUT ONLY FOR MEDICAL WORKERS

Several governments across Europe and the Americas have relaxed immigration
restrictions to allow doctors, nurses and other key workers from refugee and
migrant communities to join efforts against coronavirus. The UK still prevents
medically-trained asylum seekers from working. NHS staff have been granted free
visa extensions, but only for a year, and the same doesn’t apply to non-British
care workers.

Read More
economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/8/20 economy Frederike Kaltheuner 4/8/20

AMSTERDAM DITCHES ECONOMIC GROWTH MODEL

Amsterdam became the first city in the wold to formally embrance 'doughnut'
model of economics. The model, a visual framework for sustainable development,
was developed by the economist Kate Raworth and became popular after her 2017
bestselling book Doughnut Economics. The approach is simple: economic activity
should meet the core means of all, but within the means of the planet. “The
doughnut does not bring us the answers but a way of looking at it, so that we
don’t keep on going on in the same structures as we used to”, Amsterdam’s
deputy mayor, Marieke van Doorninck told the Guardian.

Read More
health Frederike Kaltheuner 4/7/20 health Frederike Kaltheuner 4/7/20

TURNS OUT INSULIN CAN BE AFFORDABLE IN THE U.S.

An American pharmaceutical company caps insulin costs at $35 to help diabetes
patients during pandemic. In the United States, the cost of the four most
popular types of insulin has tripled over the past decade, making insulin “a
poster child for pharmaceutical price gouging”. Stories of Americans rationing
insulin - and dying for it - have been making national headlines.

Read More
technology Frederike Kaltheuner 4/1/20 technology Frederike Kaltheuner 4/1/20

TECH COMPANY PRIORITISES SAFETY, PRIVACY AND SECURITY OVER GROWTH

Zoom announces that they are '“enacting a feature freeze, effectively
immediately, and shifting all [their'] engineering resources to focus on
[their] biggest trust, safety, and privacy issues.” “Zoom is not the worst,
just getting the attention software deserves”, the privacy group Privacy
International writes. “The rise of scrutiny of Zoom is welcome evidence that
privacy and security is valued and essential as our lives and interactions
become increasingly virtual.”

Read More
migration Frederike Kaltheuner 3/31/20 migration Frederike Kaltheuner 3/31/20

PORTUGAL TREATS MIGRANTS AND ASYLUM SEEKERS AS RESIDENTS

Portugal will temporarily treat migrants and asylum seekers with pending
applications as residents until July 1. The change will applicants access to
the national health service, welfare benefits, bank accounts, and work and
rental contracts. “People should not be deprived of their rights to health and
public service just because their application has not yet been processed,”
Claudia Veloso, spokeswoman for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, told Reuters.

Read More
technology Frederike Kaltheuner 3/20/20 technology Frederike Kaltheuner 3/20/20

GOOGLE DEBUNKS QUACK MEDICINE

If you search for “herbal corona cure” on Google, you’ll now see an elaborate
info-box that states: "There is no specific medicine to prevent or treat
coronavirus disease (COVID-19)." As @FoldableHuman pointed out on Twitter,
Google could do this for all quack medicine, such as herbal cancer treatments,
but they currently don’t.

Read More
environment Frederike Kaltheuner 3/16/20 environment Frederike Kaltheuner 3/16/
20

WATER IN VENICE CANALS IS THE CLEAREST IN LIVING MEMORY

Read More

a collection of the new possible



suddenlypossible@gmail.com

